# Getting Started

## Intro to Web3

* Internet was invented in 1970s as a decentralized network of computers from across the United States (to provide greater security and keep the systems going in case of a Soviet attack)
* In 1989 Tim Berners Lee was developing the technology which would become the World Wide Web
* **Web 1.0** is defined as the version of the web that existed between 1990 to 2004. During this time, the internet mainly consisted of static websites owned by individual companies. This websites had very low user interaction possibilities, which is why Web 1.0 is commonly referred as *read-only* web
* Around 2005 internet speed increased significantly which allowed greater adoption and greater user interaction. This meant there were possibilities for using the internet. Because of this **Web 2.0** is also known as  the *read-write web*.
* Web 2.0 was also knows as centralized web, because the content is stored on a cloud storage management service like CloudFlare or AWS. Majority of the web is tied (centralized) to a small number of big organizations. If there are only issues with one of the large storage providers, a huge amount of active websites can be affected.
* In **Web 3.0** decentralization has returned. Data is encrypted and securely stored across multiple nodes (computers connected to a blockchain network). These nodes are run by individuals worldwide who are sharing their disk space for a fee. Because data is stored on multiple nodes instead of one central server like AWS, it is decentralized. This enhances data security for websites and their users.
* In Web 2.0 if you want to join a member community of a website you usually have to create a new user account for each website, in Web 3.0 you simply connect with your crypto wallet.
* Because of decentralization it is less likely that some service will stop working, because all of the servers would stop working suddenly. Decentralized network of nodes connected to the blockchain provides greater redundancy.

## Intro to Blockchain

* The **blockchain** is an *expanding system that records information in a manner that makes it hard or almost impossible to hack the system*. Information gets recorded in **blocks**, which are like *little lists of records*.
* Each block contains a **hash** (a long string of characters representing a specific piece of data) of the previous block as well as other useful information such as a timestamp and transaction data. This process forms a chain of data, otherwise known as **blockchain**.
* Blockchain technology can be used for securing personal information, artist royalties, non-fungible tokens, real estate, aid in voting processes...
* The first step in a blockchain transaction usually starts with a user requesting a transaction. Any 'write' operation to the blockchain is a transaction. Transactions are requests for your action to be validated and added to the chain. In order to successfully execute a transaction on the Blockchain, a **gas fee** (a transaction fee on the blockchain) is typically required. When there is a lot of traffic and there is high demand for the network, the gas fees go up because block space is limited, and therefore miners can demand higher fees in order to prioritize which transactions they want to process.
* **Gas fees** are something that all users must pay in order to perform a function on the blockchain. The amount of gas required to pay varies depending on which blockchain you’re using, as well as other factors like high traffic.
* Once the transaction has been requested, it gets authenticated and added to a **block** (block is composed of a set of transaction across the blockchain). Once blocks maximum capacity is reached, the block is closed and linked to previously filled block. The block is sent out to the entirety of the network's **nodes** (participants on the blockchain).
* Then nodes validate the transaction and receive an award for participating in the validation process. With validation complete, the block gets added to the official blockchain. Afterward, the blockchain receives an update across the entire network and officially reflects that transaction. The transaction is now complete.